README.md, before:

# WebWatcher

WebWatcher is an app to periodically issue tasks related to watching a specific element, whether it's a site, or a local resource, and notify through a Telegram bot.

## Installation

Download this Repo, as well as [DGUtilities](https://github.com/DiegoG1019/DGUtilities) and place them adjacent to each other. Then, load the WebWatcher.sln in Visual Studio, it should be able to compile then. The project is designed to run as a Linux service, but if you want to run it on Windows in release mode, simply comment out the `WriteTo.Syslog` line in `Program.cs`

## Usage

### First Run
In orden for a succesful project run, two things are needed:
- A `.config/settings.cfg.json` file. It will automatically be generated along with an exception the first time you run the program, fill out the fields, and run again.

- A `.data/allow.json` file. The program is designed in a way that, any user that is not in this file, will be entirely ignored by the bot. There is a permission hierarchy to choose from. The file itself should look like this
```json
[
  {
    "User": TelegramUserId,
    "Rights": 1-4
  }
]
```
Replace `TelegramUserId` with your user id, you can find it using the @raw_data_bot in telegram.
"Rights" should be a number between 1 and 4: 1:User, 2: Moderator, 3: Admin, 4: Creator. What these permissions mean is up to you. Currently, Only Admins and Creators can request the bot service to exit, and only the Creator can modify access using the /allow command.

Once the bot is up and running, type /help

### Warnings
Currently, Erai-raws watcher only works on Linux Systems with transmission-cli installed. I tried to make it adjustable, but it proved too complicated for the time I can put into this project.
You can easily disable this watcher. (It's already disabled, since it's not complete)

### Output channels
This project is hardwired to sink logs and WCT data into specific channels. 
- The WCT Channel Id is in WitchCultTranslationsWatcher class as a `const`
- The log channel id is in `Program.cs` in the log configuration Chain Call
Make sure to comment the registration of WCT Watcher and Telegram Bot sinks, or else you will face plenty of errors.
Alternatively, you can add your bot to channels you own and use their Id instead.

### Watch Routines

In order to make more Watch routines, simply create a class that implements IWebWatcher and register it along the others in `Program.cs`
(I'm in the works of making it attribute reflection based, but that's on hold for now)

### Bot commands

In order to make more Bot commands, simply make a new class that implements `IBotCommand` and decorate it with the `BotCommand` attribute. Nothing else needs to be done. You can even replace /help and /start, as all commands are loaded first and then, if they're not found, they're defaulted. If they're found, yours will be used instead.

### Run as a service
In order to run this app as a service, take a look at the `WebWatcher.service` systemd service file template
Commands:
1. `nano WebWatcher/WebWatcher.service` use `sudo` if doing it through another user, to edit the service file
2. `sudo chmod 7xx WebWatcher/DiegoG.WebWatcher` to make sure the file is executable
3. `sudo chown USERID -R WebWatcher` to make sure the entire directory is owned by the user owning the service
4. `sudo cp WebWatcher/WebWatcher.service /etc/systemd/system/` to throw the file into the service files directory
5. `sudo systemctl daemon-reload` to make sure your file is visible
6. `sudo systemctl start WebWatcher` to start the service
8. OPTIONAL: After a few seconds, `sudo systemctl status WebWatcher` to verify the status of the service.


## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License
[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

Commit message:

Implemented Extension support, largely untested

README.md, after:

# WebWatcher

WebWatcher is an app to periodically issue tasks related to watching a specific element, whether it's a site, or a local resource, and notify through a Telegram bot.

## Installation

Download this Repo, as well as [DGUtilities](https://github.com/DiegoG1019/DGUtilities) and place them adjacent to each other. Then, load the WebWatcher.sln in Visual Studio, it should be able to compile then. The project is designed to run as a Linux service, but if you want to run it on Windows in release mode, simply comment out the `WriteTo.Syslog` line in `Program.cs`

## Usage

### First Run
In orden for a succesful project run, two things are needed:
- A `.config/settings.cfg.json` file. It will automatically be generated along with an exception the first time you run the program, fill out the fields, and run again.

- A `.data/allow.json` file. The program is designed in a way that, any user that is not in this file, will be entirely ignored by the bot. There is a permission hierarchy to choose from. The file itself should look like this
```json
[
  {
    "User": TelegramUserId,
    "Rights": 1-4
  }
]
```
Replace `TelegramUserId` with your user id, you can find it using the @raw_data_bot in telegram.
"Rights" should be a number between 1 and 4: 1:User, 2: Moderator, 3: Admin, 4: Creator. What these permissions mean is up to you. Currently, Only Admins and Creators can request the bot service to exit, and only the Creator can modify access using the /allow command.

Once the bot is up and running, type /help

### Extensions
Following an update to DGUtilities, the app should now support extension loading, though it's still largely untested, and no security measures are in place.
By default, all new extensions are found and added to `ExtensionEnable` in settings, and are, by default, set to `false`, meaning they won't be loaded. You can fix this by diving into your settings.

Extensions are loaded at startup before commands and watchers are loaded, but after Serilog

### Warnings
Currently, Erai-raws watcher only works on Linux Systems with transmission-cli installed. I tried to make it adjustable, but it proved too complicated for the time I can put into this project.
You can easily disable this watcher. (It's already disabled, since it's not complete)

### Output channels
This project is hardwired to sink logs and WCT data into specific channels. 
- The WCT Channel Id is in WitchCultTranslationsWatcher class as a `const`
- The log channel id is in `Program.cs` in the log configuration Chain Call
Make sure to comment the registration of WCT Watcher and Telegram Bot sinks, or else you will face plenty of errors.
Alternatively, you can add your bot to channels you own and use their Id instead.

### Watch Routines

In order to make more Watch routines, simply create a class that implements IWebWatcher and register it along the others in `Program.cs`
(I'm in the works of making it attribute reflection based, but that's on hold for now)

### Bot commands

In order to make more Bot commands, simply make a new class that implements `IBotCommand` and decorate it with the `BotCommand` attribute. Nothing else needs to be done. You can even replace /help and /start, as all commands are loaded first and then, if they're not found, they're defaulted. If they're found, yours will be used instead.

### Run as a service
In order to run this app as a service, take a look at the `WebWatcher.service` systemd service file template
Commands:
1. `nano WebWatcher/WebWatcher.service` use `sudo` if doing it through another user, to edit the service file
2. `sudo chmod 7xx WebWatcher/DiegoG.WebWatcher` to make sure the file is executable
3. `sudo chown USERID -R WebWatcher` to make sure the entire directory is owned by the user owning the service
4. `sudo cp WebWatcher/WebWatcher.service /etc/systemd/system/` to throw the file into the service files directory
5. `sudo systemctl daemon-reload` to make sure your file is visible
6. `sudo systemctl start WebWatcher` to start the service
8. OPTIONAL: After a few seconds, `sudo systemctl status WebWatcher` to verify the status of the service.


## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License
[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
